Nice to see today so many Sahaja yogis
looking like beautiful lotus flowers,
as the blossom time is filled
with the fragrance of your beauty.
It is such a pleasure for Me
to be your Mother
and to be able to communicate the Divine,
the powers of Divine,
the beauty of Divine to you.
It was never possible before, as you know.
Everyone tried their level best
but nobody could achieve it,
to communicate that beauty.
As you know, Sahaja Yoga,
or this Mahayoga is a very unique system,
it never existed before.
It has come into existence,
of course,
I should say that
because the Parabrahma decided to take a
form,
but you also all decided to come
on this earth to receive the blessings.
It cannot be possible to do anything
with one hand.
The beauty of Sahaja Yoga is great,
no doubt,
which I am sure very soon people
will realize that this is the only way.
All lost people will come back
to Sahaja Yog, I'm sure,
and they will achieve what they are due.
You don't have to do anything
about Sahaja Yoga,
you just walk in
and you can get Realization.
In India there was a gentleman
who came to see Me
and he told Me a big story about his woes,
he told Me he's under debt,
he has so many problems,
his wife is like this,
his children are like this,
and he has problems, political problems,
all sorts of problems he had.
And then he got his Realization.
And he said,
"Mother, what have You done to me?"
I said, "Why?"
He said, "I have forgotten all this
and I'm in joy, I am in joy",
you see.
I said, "It could be an escape."
He said, "No, I can see all that,
but I am still in joy."
Next time he met Me he said,
"I've solved all my problems,
because I was in joy,
and I could share it with others.
Things improved a lot."
That's how Sahaja Yoga works,
instantaneously, spontaneously,
without any effort. It's true.
But we have to face certain things.
The fact, that we were not so prepared
for Sahaja Yog, in the sense,
that we are people living in this life
of turmoil, confusion,
all kinds of funny ideas.
And idea of dharma is also missing,
it's only in the books
or in the churches maybe somewhere
people talk, only talk.
It's not actually existing.
Moreover, we have also not got
the traditions left with us,
which are required to be a person
to worship the Divine.
Most of our traditions we have lost
because firstly we discovered
that there's lot of hypocrisy
and insincerity
as far as religion is concerned.
The people who talk of religion
behave in such manner
that you cannot believe that there is God.
So they denied God,
they denied all the traditions,
they said, "This is all useless,
it has no meaning,
better give up all the religions,
it's fanaticism, it is nonsense."
Because it did not give them any fruits,
according to them,
they couldn't wait for Sahaja Yoga
to come in to prove
that all religions are absolutely correct,
and their traditions are absolutely
necessary if you really want
to have the maximum of the joy
and the beauty of the Divine.
But it so happened, that we lost
those traditions, we've lost,
most of the traditions are lost.
It is surprising,
how many traditions we have lost
and we are not aware of it.
So a new education is needed for us
to understand the traditions
of worshiping.
It's easy to have a puja,
because your Mother is always available.
If you just tell Her there is puja,
She'll dress up and come down here.
But in tradition at least there should be
an invitation,
you have to come, and receive,
and ask for coming,
because now you see
the joke of the whole thing is.
But it's all right, because you
don't know, it's all right.
It's not only that, I'm saying on the
whole,
a worship is a tradition
which has come to us
from great seers and ancient sages.
Anybody, even, say, Moses,
you can say Socrates,
you can say Dattatreya, or Markandeya,
or any one of these people
have found out the ways and methods
how to tune our instruments to the Divine
to achieve the maximum joy.
How to please the Deities,
that's the main point is,
how to please the Deities.
But it's a crude word "pleases",
but how to…
I don't know what should I say,
innovation they say,
or what do you call that?
How to spark them, invoke, invoke them,
invoke them that they give you
complete blessings.
And the trick of the trade
one has to learn, one has to educate.
There's nothing wrong
in getting educated.
So we know that we have to
educate ourselves, first point,
and secondly we have to know that
for that we have to be humble.
The humility should be such that
"I have to learn. I have to learn.
I have to educate. Nothing wrong in it."
And I have told you before that
in ancient times the gurus used to be
so strict with their disciples
that they used to put them
hanging on a well for three days,
before they could enter even
into the university.
So if they could stand all that insults,
then only they would bring the students
inside and start talking
about any education.
Because, you see, in educating a person
if you have no humility and understanding
that I do not know, I have to know,
– it's a fact, because this is the new
journey towards the roots, as I said.
You are the roots, Sahaja Yogis are
the roots of the whole universe,
do you know that?
You are the roots,
and as roots you have to know
how to journey through this deeper parts
of spiritual life, to grow.
When you grow deep, the tree grows up.
It is through you only,
the nourishment of the
this overgrown universe is going to be
looked after.
And the more it overgrows,
you must grow deeper.
But for that you must have education,
it's important.
Look at the little cell
at the tip of a root,
how it moves with complete intelligence,
understanding and wisdom.
Supposing it is hit by a stone,
it doesn't feel bad, it goes back.
It knows where to recede,
where to go further,
where to go round the thing
and how to use the same stone
for making the tree very strong.
All this education you have to get
through your experiences
and by all the time saying humbly:
"I have to learn."
That is very important,
that we have to have that humility
to educate ourselves.
Because with that education you'll embed
this tremendous task into the minds
of people, which is a very difficult
thing.
The movement is outward in this shoots,
in this outside tree, outward.
It's easy to impress a person
if you are insincere, very easy –
if you can dress up in a particular way,
smile in a different way,
look in a different way,
if you can act very well
you can impress anyone, for the people
who are superficial we say.
The veneer that we have so far
is not needed any more.
There is no need to have the veneer,
because inside we have found our Self,
our own Spirit, our own beauty
which is going to flower out,
which is going to come out.
So there's no need to have
any artificial veneer at all,
because I know you
and the Deities know you.
There is no need to have
any artificiality outside.
We put on some sort of
an artificial veneer.
What's the use for us?
Nothing, we are not going to impress
people outwardly.
We have to impress them inwardly.
So for inward growth all this veneer
must drop out.
The veneer has come through so many
kinds of acceptance of norms and the,
we can say, the formalities of life
are concerned.
That veneer is within us:
if you say thank you ten times, finished,
if you say sorry two times, is all right.
But from inside to feel something,
to genuinely feel something,
to be genuine about it is our work.
But that doesn't mean that we should
have no tradition.
Tradition gives us that beauty
to grow in a proper way.
For example, you'll see, we'll find people
talk here sometimes gives you a shock,
I mean the way
"I'll buy you a lunch today,"
say, a thing like that.
It's horrible to say such a thing,
as to say "I'll buy you a lunch today,"
you see.
It's very rude and crude way of talking,
isn't it?
On the contrary, it's better to say that
"Will you give me the pleasure
of you having for lunch?"
Is no artificiality:
that's the way you should feel it.
There's no artificiality
because from your heart it is coming,
you're saying it from your heart.
But if you are not saying it
from your heart,
it's better even if you are not saying
with your heart, it's better to say
that it would be a pleasure.
Because to say that
"I'll buy you a lunch
and you buy me tomorrow."
To say another thing, you see, it's also
possible, this is, this people think
is being very open,
and there's no insincerity –
because you are insincere!
Because you are insincere,
that's why you want to avoid insincerity.
Why not be sincere?
By saying whatever looks so sincere
is actually vulgar.
It is not proper to say such a thing.
But for a Sahaja Yogi if he is traditional
as well as his inner self is shining,
it's like a beautiful diamond
put in a beautiful ring.
So I feel that an education
in our behavior has to come in.
Our language has to change.
Our style has to change.
We have to live in a way
that people should feel
that these are decent people,
very normal people.
You don't have to do anything abnormal
to be a Sahaja Yogi.
You have to be extremely normal, decent
people, who know decent language.
There is no need to put up any show,
for example, you see, an artificial smile,
or an artificial face,
there's no need at all.
For a Sahaja Yogi to become like
any other person is no hypocrisy.
You see, a Sahaja Yogi may think
"Mother, it's a hypocrisy,
because I'm a Sahaja Yogi,
I'm a Realized soul,
why should I dress up like other people,
you see.
It's a hypocrisy." It is not.
For a king to dress up like a beggar,
is it a hypocrisy?
Will you call it a hypocrisy? It is not.
Now, I am a, I am supposing,
I am a Goddess.
I'm not supposed to dress up
like ordinary people.
I'm to be decked up all the time,
I should have this, that,
but I have to dress up
like ordinary person,
so is it hypocrisy?
Is it hypocrisy by that? It is not.
Hypocrisy is to claim something
that you are not.
It's a higher level.
You see, supposing a person,
who is not even a realized soul,
and he says "I am a guru."
Then he is a hypocrite.
But not a real guru,
behaves like an ordinary person.
Is a question of discretion.
One should understand,
is a question of discretion.
So when you dress up like an ordinary
person in an ordinary way
there is no question of hypocrisy.
But maybe you are doing it for a thing
not to appear something so much
that other's ego is hurt.
Actually I do that only
just not to hurt anybody's ego,
to be very frank.
I go about like that because I do not want
to hurt anybody's ego,
because hurting ego means
they'll go down further,
so maybe that is the reason you are doing,
for the sake of their good
if you have to take up a dress like that
– doesn't matter.
But hypocrisy comes in
when you are not that
and you claim something.
Now for a Sahaja Yogi it is important
to know that he has to improve.
He has to go further, he has to grow.
And for the growth whatever is necessary
must be accepted in right, proper way.
Now, today is a very auspicious day
that you are celebrating My Birthday.
I'm sure by the time I'm sixty
years of age you would grow so fast,
this year I wish that you grow so fast,
that when people see you they should feel
a great beautiful personality
standing before us,
each one of you have to be great people,
each one of you.
For Me, that's the only thing to be seen.
And it can be accelerated very fast
if you understand you have to learn
every moment,
the humility is necessary.
If you know that you have to grow
every moment you'll be amazed
how fast you can grow.
Every moment you have to change.
For example, your style of talking,
some people have a style of talking,
you can see in the mirror,
how would you like a Sahaja Yogi
to have that kind of a style of talking?
Some people have a style of, you see,
laughing in a funny way,
all the time they'll be laughing,
giggling,
while talking "he-hu" they go on,
that's not the way a Sahaja Yogi should
be.
He should be serene,
he should laugh when it is necessary,
he should smile at when it is necessary.
It is so much in tune with your Spirit
that whatever you do should create beauty.
Even when you cry at the time
when it is necessary, it's so beautiful.
See, tears come into your eyes sometimes,
they do.
But you see somebody very sick,
somebody very ill, unhappy –
then the tears should come,
not when something about you is bad.
That's a Sahaja Yogi.
The Sahaja Yogi must feel for others,
not for oneself.
In the same way, when you laugh, you see,
you shouldn't just laugh
as a matter of habit.
Some people have a habit,
whenever they talk they start
with the laughter
or they'll just in between "he",
they'll say again "he", they'll say
– has no meaning.
Every time the person who laughs
can be idiotic also,
so one should not appear that way.
Or one should not be so serious,
that next moment a person wants
to get away from you
the way you are serious.
I mean there are silent bores also,
they just bore you by their silence.
But whatever you have to speak
it should come from your heart.
If it really comes from your heart,
I tell you,
it will have so much effect,
because heart gives that beauty to you.
That's your Spirit.
Connection is with the Spirit.
When you speak it from your heart,
feelingly, whatever you speak,
it shows so much of your feelings
on your face, and on your behavior,
everything, and it touches
another person's heart,
means you touch the roots of the person.
You touch the absolute innermost
part of his,
"antakkarana" as you say,
innermost compartment of his life,
and from there the light comes.
Now this difference we must understand
that our education now is going to be
sincerity to speak from your own heart,
and not from outside.
Now we have all the formalities
how to say it, how to eat,
these things are very, very superficial
for Sahaja Yoga.
These are not so important.
For Sahaja Yoga,
these things do not matter.
But traditionally those things
that are accepted must be seen,
discretely used,
and we should behave in such a manner
that whatever we say from our heart
should have that beautiful cover
of a tradition. That's all.
But you need not be artificial at all,
there's no need to be artificial.
Now the line to draw
between artificiality and reality
is very difficult for people.
Because, you see,
if you intellectualize it,
you can intellectualize everything.
For example, if I say that
something is wrong with you.
So you may feel that I have criticized,
or something, you may feel bad.
This is according to his reality,
is not true. It is unreal.
Because you have come here
to educate yourself, all right?
Now I have to tell you something.
When I tell you and if you feel hurt
then it is not reality.
Then what is it?
It is your ego,
you are playing with your ego,
not with your Spirit.
On the contrary, a man who has Spirit
will feel happy that
"I'm in the attention of Mother,
that She can correct me."
So second is, that to be in the attention
of your Mother.
Whether She says you're good, bad,
or anything is very important,
is very important.
Not to be away from Mother's attention
Because supposing today you might feel
something bad and you may try
to get out of Her attention,
who will look after you?
She is looking after you,
She has to correct you
and She has to tell you that this is not
proper and this is not good, this is good.
In that you have to have faith
that you will definitely come up,
you will have to come up,
because I am interested in you
I am telling you.
So to be in the Mother's attention
is very important
and that Mother's attention
is all the time with you
till you absolutely try to get out of it.
Because I cannot force Myself upon you,
that's the main point is,
I cannot force myself upon you.
But if you want My attention,
then I have to tell you
if you are touching something,
say a child is touching this fire,
won't you tell the child don't do it?
So every moment the Mother
has to look after.
And She loves you, not only that,
but to Her you're so important.
I mean, nobody would like to say anything
to anyone these days,
because people want to be popular,
this cheap popularity.
I'm not a person
who is asking for popularity.
What I want, that My children should be
beautiful people.
Then they enter into the Kingdom of God.
They should be respected as great saints,
sages, more than anybody else.
They're special people and that's how
they have to be educated.
Maybe I'm very ambitious, you might say,
but My ambitions are based on reality.
I'm sure I can achieve it.
But you must develop that,
that humility within yourself,
and understanding that we all
have to improve,
we have to be in the attention of Mother,
if She has to say something to us,
we are not to feel hurt.
If you feel hurt,
then know that it is your ego,
beat yourself with shoes, take it out,
because is not good.
I cannot go on pampering your ego
all the time,
till you're completely blasted off
and then you come and tell Me,
"Mother why didn't you tell me?"
For example, somebody asked Me,
he's in love with somebody,
wants to marry,
I knew the person was horrible
and he should not marry the person.
And I said that, in a way.
I said, "All right."
I mean, at first it was a shock,
and I kept quiet.
I said, now, how to say,
not to pamper his ego either.
But to say, how to say that no?
And yes – it will be very difficult.
So I said, "All right,
as long as she makes you happy,
it's all right."
Now the word "happy" is a double meaning.
"Happy" means only your ego can be happy,
not the Spirit, is joy.
I did not use the word "joy",
I said "happy".
See I have to be clever about it.
Now, if you have thought of it,
"Why would it Mother say 'happy'?
She should have said
'If it gives you joy'."
If I say "joy" then it's correct,
but I said "happy".
And I said it three-four times to him,
that "Does it make you happy?"
He said "Yes."
"If it makes you happy, you can marry
her."
Now, you see, if – he's very intelligent
and he should have thought of it,
but he never thought of it
that I was meaning that
it is not going to give you joy,
it will give you,
"if it gives you happiness, you marry."
Happiness means: is your ego pampering,
is simple.
Also you have to educate yourself
to understand your Mother.
This is the third thing you have to know
is to understand your Mother.
See, I have to be clever,
because if I'm not,
if I am very blunt you get blasted.
If I am not, you are lost.
So I have to be clever,
and when I'm clever they call Me Mahamaya.
So, at least let Me keep to one style,
let Me be a Mahamaya, all right, accepted.
But then you try to understand that
if I tell you something,
you just get absolutely annoyed and angry.
And people get lost, you see, they get
lost,
if you tell them "don't do it," they get
lost.
If you say "do it", then they get lost
in any case because they're doing
a wrong thing, so it is a big problem,
and you should see what is good for you,
"svartha".
"Svartha" also means "selfishness"
but it means "the meaning of yourself".
"Sva-artha", that's what you
have to find out for yourself,
what is good for you,
and if Mother is saying something,
then what is the meaning
of what Mother is saying.
I'm too simple, but I'm very crooked,
because when I tell you something
straightforward, you do not understand,
so I have to go in a roundabout way, see,
that's the diplomacy of Shri Krishna.
You see, because Mother's intentions are
very simple and sincere
that My children should grow
into real Divine power.
They should become really,
actually Divinity.
They should be nothing but embodiment
of God's love.
I'm very ambitious,
I have all confidence in Myself,
in you also,
and I'm sure you will understand,
that I do not do your ego-pampering.
I encourage you,
and I also sometimes discourage you.
Both forces are important
if you have to progress properly.
So when I encourage you, you feel happy,
means your ego is there.
When I discourage you,
you feel discouraged,
means your superego is there.
So you don't have to be both.
You have to be in joy,
because unless and until
you educate yourself fully,
the feeling of joy, the feeling of Spirit,
the oneness with Spirit
will not be your own.
It's like, you see, My car,
which didn't start,
you see, it's a hopeless instrument,
it can't take Me up to this Chelsham Road
where I have to go for such an important
thing.
So what's the use of having such a car,
isn't it?
That's what it is.
One has to understand if this habit
of Mister X, Y, Z is like this,
it doesn't take me there,
better not to have such a habit.
Better not to have this kind of a
personality,
better not to have this mentality,
better not have this kind of attitude,
better give up,
it's all nonsense, I have come here,
on this earth to enjoy
the bounties of God's love.
So it is a very great day today
because internationally we are all
celebrating My Birthday.
Yesterday about ten o'clock I started
feeling
the vibrations flowing
and My husband told me that in Australia
the Puja must have started,
and then later on, about, say,
twelve o'clock again it was in India
I think, continuously,
so I feel now when all over the world
My Birthday is on,
even when it will finish here,
it will go to America,
and all over the world twenty four hours
I'll be emitting vibrations perhaps
because everywhere they are worshipping Me
and the sun is moving,
twelve o'clock, they'll be all worshipping
Me.
It's a great thing that such a day has
come
that people are feeling it round the
world.
That it is a great day
when the divine decided to start
this Mahayoga.
Now, for your education I was thinking
of writing a book,
an article about how to educate yourself.
But the problem is that when I write it
I do not want you to feel that
"it is directed towards me", you see,
because you will find some identification.
It's not directed towards anyone,
it's a general thing.
Today you might be having that problem,
tomorrow another might be having that
problem,
anybody, it's a general thing.
With all your permission, if you say so,
I think I should write it down,
which will help you,
which you should read impersonally,
impersonally,
and that is going to, I'm sure, help you.
That should be really the beginning
of My another book
which I am thinking for Sahaja yogis,
that I should take to one book only
for Sahaja yogis.
The one I've written is for everyone,
but this one would be only for Sahaja
yogis.
The first one chapter would be:
how to educate yourself to be in Sahaja
Yoga
and to grow in it
and not to be deluded by ego and superego.
I hope I have your permission today,
and I'll start that thing for you.
Now, if there are any questions we should
ask
because we have reached the point
where we can start the puja now.
You should know that another cleverness
your Mother has, you see,
maybe the car was failed
because of Me perhaps, you can't say.
I'm very clever at certain things
like arranging timings.
You know, the thing is, we went for a…
there was a puja in… what was that place?
We stayed in Lonaura. We had a puja there.
And for that puja, you see,
they fixed the time at nine.
As usual they fixed themselves
as if they never ask Me.
Nine o'clock, puja is fixed, Mother,
come at nine.
Mother should come, sit down,
"All right, do My puja."
You see, at nine o'clock, imagine.
I said, "All right, I'll be there."
So I wouldn't go for My bath
till eleven o'clock.
They were saying: "Mother, go for Your
bath."
I said, "Just a minute, I'll do…"
And without bath I wouldn't come for the
puja.
So they said, "Why Mataji is not going?"
They were all very upset.
Sit down, they were waiting and waiting
for "Why Mother has not come?"
I said, "All right, I'll just go for a
bath."
At eleven I went for a bath.
And they were to have puja at nine, you
see.
Then I came back about eleven thirty,
I came down, they started the puja.
So before starting the puja I said,
"All right, now please see the panchanga."
Where they write the dates, you see.
There it was written till eleven o'clock
was amavasya,
is the day when there is no moon.
And nothing, no good work to be done
during that time, inauspicious, you see.
I said, "How could I take My bath before
that?"
And they were all amazed.
I said, "I never read panchang,
but I know what is to be done what,
and what time it is the most auspicious
time,
that is the time everything else is to be
done.
And you don't have any panchang today,
but you can find out about it."
These things are very important,
timings are,
because as I have to consult all the
deities,
I have to consult all the stars,
and also you know, the stars have got
all the deities on them,
they're all to be consulted,
they are to be put right,
the whole thing is to be geared up for
puja
so that you have the maximum advantage.
I have to work very hard for all these
things
and it's a very big operation,
so such a huge complicated operation
that you do not know.
You see, when you start doing my puja
you get your vibrations, you think,
"Oh, Mother has given us vibrations."
It's not so simple.
It's a very-very big operation, imagine,
to get a car done is so difficult.
Now here there are so many complicated
stuffs
and the whole universe is involved into
it,
so one has to work out very carefully.
So only thing, one should have a humility,
why you don't understand Mother so much,
it's all right,
we have to understand our Mother more and
more,
so that education is also important.
So far you have had faith in Me,
thank you very much for that,
and I hope you'll have more faith in Me,
and understand Me better,
why I do certain things
and why it is necessary.
These cannot be rationalized
unless and until you really reach
that state of rationality,
where the Spirit gives you the light
to understand.
Then you will see that time Mother
will allow some time to pass
and this happens, that happens,
sometimes She may come earlier, later,
it's little whimsical, to an ordinary
person,
but it is not, it is not.
It is the working of the divine,
which is to be understood
from the divine point of view.
See, from a human point of view
it may also look crooked,
it may look vicious sometimes,
may look funny, but it's not so.
It has to be done like that
and I really use traditions
to hide all that which looks funny to you.
That's how I manage, otherwise
you would be surprised,
the things I'm doing, like killing
the rakshasas and all that,
is a horrible thing but I'm doing it,
all these things.
You know I'm doing lots of things
like I gave a bandhan to this Narakasura,
and they had no meetings,
not a single person turned for their
meeting.
So all these tricks I am playing,
you may call it espionage
or anything you feel like.
You may call it anything very serious,
what can I do about it?
But it is so, one has to work out
in this crooked world,
you have to take them out
and really do something about it.
So it is a big operation on,
while you are the real people on the
stage,
I mean, the whole opera,
everything is for you,
the whole dressmakers and everybody
is sitting at the back,
they're all working it out,
you are on the stage
and you have to achieve it.
You are the actors
and you are the real things,
which are going to give the show.
That's true.
So if you have any questions,
please ask
and then we'll go ahead
with this puja business.
Now I must tell you.
The Indian Sahaja yogis have bought
for My toe-rings something,
they bought for Me,
and these are of course
are going to be at My personal archives,
I must say.
And I've sent it to be worn to the,
for the program.
Because they thought that the program
is going to be in India.
And they had made all these things,
ornaments for Me there –
but, poor things, I decided to come here
and have the program.
And they think you are specially
privileged people, that I'll go to
England.
But then I told them,
"How many birthdays I've had with you, how
many?"
Then they kept quiet, you see.
They thought, why this privilege
to these people, Europeans and the
English?
So I said, "Now, how many birthdays
I've had with you?"
Because they had made all preparations,
they had made all these toe-rings
and everything for Me,
and you'd be amazed,
how beautifully they had made these
things.
So it is all right,
we have to think of them,
and today, on the twenty second,
they are having a big program
and there, where there will be
some speeches and things,
and some music program,
and it is free to all,
I hope it will be successful.
Must have started by now,
it's about five thirty –
six o'clock they are going to start,
so it's about that time,
and that's how your Mother is postponing
a little bit, if you don't mind.
All right. Any questions?
Now, any other questions?
Then you feel it towards the photograph,
all right?
You see, the thing is, it comes from,
the origin of this question comes,
because you are born in a Christian
family,
you see,
and that's what we accept as Christianity,
as Hindus are born, they say "we are
Hindus."
You see, they don't think that
you are born in that,
so we've accepted a certain situation.
Now, in the Bible it's written
that whatever is created by Mother Earth,
whatever is created by Mother Earth
and by the Sky, or they call it Firmament,
should not be reproduced and worshipped,
you see?
Now it's a very clear-cut writing,
very clear cut if you think about it.
We should first of all think,
what is created by the Mother Earth.
What is created by the Mother Earth?
We never think on those lines!
You see, because Bible is another thing
which is a very diplomatic thing
I should say in a way,
because it was written at a time
when everybody on top of them,
so they had to write in such a way.
Now, what are the things created
by Mother Earth
are the things that have come out
of the Mother Earth,
which are vibrating,
like I said Stonehenge.
Now, you cannot reproduce it and worship
it.
In India we have many places like that
from where you can just feel the
vibrations,
do you remember, those who came to India,
did you see that place near Musalwari?
How cool breeze were coming out of that
place,
isn't it?
So that cannot be reproduced,
because human beings are going to
reproduce.
Whatever you reproduce is artificial.
Now, supposing you make a statue out of
me,
that will be artificial.
But not the photograph.
The photograph is a real thing.
Christ was, Himself was respected,
you know that when He came,
people bowed to Him on Palm Sundays,
they laid down their cloths
that He should walk over it.
But Christ is different.
If there was an exact copy of Christ
as the photograph, it would have
vibration.
Now, do you know, Moses was buried
in Kashmere.
Nobody will know that,
but I know, that He was buried in
Kashmere.
And the Jews who disappeared
out of the Roman clutches
went down in India and settled down
in Kashmere,
and they're called as Jews, actually.
But who will know this?
Unless and until you have vibrations,
how will you know that Moses was buried
there?
So, when you read Bible without your eyes
being opened out, enlightened,
you read it in the wrong way.
Now what your people may say about
Mohamed?
You see, Mohamed was a prophet,
no doubt about it.
And He was nobody else but Moses Himself.
Let the Jews fight and the Muslims fight.
I know for definite
they are the same personality.
Yes, they will break each other's necks,
let them break.
They're going to reach nowhere
with this nonsense,
because they were the same personality
reborn.
Moses was reborn to teach the Jews
that "Baba, we are all human beings,
there is nothing like you few people
and they few people.
They're all one in the eyes of God."
So this is what it is.
Now, if you tell somebody
that Moses died in India, they'll kill Me.
But it is a fact!
And I can tell you exactly where He died.
It is described.
All the words that are used in the Bible
that Nebu and all these places
where He's buried,
is the place there, in Kashmere.
So when we read Bible as Christians,
you see,
for us it is that any photograph is
worshipped
then we are worshipping a sort of a
statue.
Is not so.
Supposing, there is an exact copy
of Christ photograph, then it is not,
because you are not reproduced,
with your hands.
The statues are made out of hands
of human beings,
but I was surprised that some statues
are also vibrating.
There are some statues,
which are also vibrating.
Surprisingly, some realized souls can do
it.
That's why, in general it was written,
and this kind of a stamp that we wear,
you see,
from our childhood we are born
as Christians, Hindus, Muslims, Jews,
or anything, the stamp we carry so far,
when we have had no experience of
anything.
But we are educated that way throughout,
you see, that we carry it on,
even realization comes in,
still we go on.
It's a surprising thing how human beings
take to artificial.
Is all-artificial that you were born in a
thing,
your parents told you,
you are a Muslim, or a Hindu,
or a Christian whatever it is
and you carry on with it.
But you don't want to think
that you have to be born again!
Why did they all say that
you are to be born again?
Because without being born again
you will not know the reality.
And whatever they have said is for your
good,
that don't worship anyone.
I would say,
one should not worship Me also.
Unless and until you are realized.
I don't allow you to touch My feet
if you're not realized.
You have no business to touch My feet,
I get the pangs.
If an unrealized person worships My
photograph
I don't know what will happen to Me.
But it's better to spare God,
not to worship if you are not realized,
is better to spare.
If somebody is not a proper realized soul,
they come under My feet, I get blisters.
Do you know that?
It's not easy, you know,
to deal with people who are not properly
realized.
You see, we think we are obliging God,
here God is obliging you, to be very
frank.
That's the fact.
You see, a person who comes to touch My
feet
thinks, that oh, he is surrendering
himself.
It is the surrendering of the divine,
I tell you. It's not easy.
The other day I was in India,
if you tell them, "Don't touch My feet."
Here it is the other way around,
because of Christianity, there's Hinduism.
So Hindus think,
you must touch everybody's feet.
So when I say, "Don't touch My feet,"
that was the worst curse you can give upon
them.
They said, "Mother, what have we done
wrong?"
I mean, all the philosophy came down.
I said, "All right, baba, touch My feet."
My feet became so swollen,
you won't believe, I couldn't even lift My
legs.
See, this is what it is, you see,
whatever you are branded with
you carry on, carry on, carry on like
that.
But why not keep yourself open?
Nobody has given you realization so far.
Has any one of these priests or anybody
given you realization? Nobody has.
Accept the fact, finished.
Then somebody has given you realization.
A person who has given you realization
must be someone, has to be.
I don't want to tell you like Christ
to be crucified by you.
But that is what it is,
one should find out for oneself.
Actually, we don't even give photographs
to people who are not realized,
to be very frank.
Because it is of no use,
it is absolutely insulting to God
to give the photographs to anyone
who is not realized,
who is not a Sahaja yogi.
We don't allow them to come to pujas also.
You know that definitely,
we don't allow many people to come in,
I mean, you know that definitely.
Because they don't understand.
So what's the use of calling them for
puja?
This is one of the reasons
we don't want people to come to puja,
who are not yet fully Sahaja yogis.
And the definition of a Sahaja yogi
we have found out is
that the one who has given realization
to ten people at least.
Those who have not given realization
to at least ten people,
will not be called as Sahaja yogi any
further.
So this is a criteria that you should be
able
to give realization to ten people,
then only you are a Sahaja yogi,
then only you can worship the photograph,
then only you can come to puja,
otherwise you cannot.
If you haven't achieved that much,
you cannot come to puja.
This is in India, but it's working,
because there people have done it.
And you all have to do it also.
Sahaja yogis don't ask any questions.
Very clever.